---
tags:
  - PC
---

# General Philosophy

The world appears to be a chaotic mess of random events and happenstance, but in actuality there is a universal/divine will that is guiding the overall trajectory of events towards pre-determined end-states. These overarching goals are almost completely unknown to mortals but the universe hints at its general trajectory through "random" happenings. Events that are important to the universe are guaranteed to happen, but how the world gets there can change. I read heavily into seemingly random events and tend to let games of chance 'help' me make large decisions.

# Backstory

## Community

The Lykkestein (Norwegian for "lucky stone") Mining Company is a community of mostly [[Orc]], [[Half-Orc]], and [[Dwarf]] miners, their families and a couple merchants and tradespeople that travel with the company to supply them with necessary goods and services to support such a community. The people who were born with the company generally have Scandinavian sounding names. Their last names are earned by literally making a name for themselves through feats, accomplishments or their character traits and can throughout ones life. The Lykkestein Company are a notoriously superstitious bunch who mostly follow [[Tymora]] and believe that the more successful miners in the company have her favor which causes them to find the most valuable metals and gemstones. They frequently take part in religious rituals which often take the form of gambling on games of chance. They currently are mining on the north side of [[Silberquel Ridge]] and have been for the last 7 years. They have set up a decent sized long-term camp in the foot hills of the mountains.
## Parents 

My father, Tog Av-Hakken (Norwegian for "of the pickaxe"), was an [[Orc]] miner employed by the Lykkestein Mining Company where he quickly rose through the ranks because he frequently found some of the most valuable metals and gemstones and therefore was perceived to be blessed by [[Tymora]]. One day while mining, his pick struck a thin section of rock and broke it open into a mineshaft that looked to have been abandoned in a hurry by whoever was working there before. There were minecarts full of gold, silver and other gemstones that would make the company as much money as they normally earn in a year. He called his fellow miners in to start hauling it out while he explored deeper. As he delved deeper in to the mine, he felt a compulsion to push on a wall. The wall creaked open and revealed a small room with a pedestal in the center. On the pedestal was a ornate wooden box with velvet lining that held a large silver coin, the face of [[Tymora]] on one side and the black antlers of [[Beshaba]] inlaid on the other. He took it and told no one else from the company. 

In the months following him finding the coin, he experienced some of the best luck imaginable. He would win almost every game of chance he played, find even more precious minerals in the mines, and he even met the love of his life, a human woman named Avryn Markedet (The fair) who had recently joined up with the company as a cleric of [[Tymora]] to help run the religious ceremonies (which often involved heavy gambling). The ended up having a kid together and raising him while traveling around with the mining company. 

As the years went by, Tog's luck grew worse and worse. It started out with small things, a streak of gambling losses longer than almost anyone has ever heard of, and grew to bigger things like taking a break from mining right before another employee found precious gemstones in the spot that he was mining, tearing his rotator cuff in the mines, and even losing his wife to a fever. She was the only person in the company to die because of that sickness. Shortly after the death of his wife, his luck started to turn again and he got a sign from Tymora that the company needed to head to the north side of the [[Silberquel Ridge]], directly outside of a mining town called [[Druvenlode]] where they would find a great site for their next mine. After setting up camp and working the site for a year or so, Tog's luck went bad for the last time. During a routine check up by the clerics that practiced medicine for the company, they found a lump on his left testicle and scheduled some tests. Tog didn't think to much of it, as if it were cancerous, the clerics magic would easily be able to remove the cancer. However, as he lay there in the infirmary awaiting his test results, bad luck struck again and the cleric attending to him accidentally switched his chart with the chart of Thog, an [[orc]] with a benign lump. Because of this stroke of bad luck, Tog ended up dying 3 months later of testicular cancer, leaving his only son, Solvtar Vandrer, to bury him and make a name for himself. They buried him at the Amber Crossroads

## Solvtar Vandrer

*Name means Silver tear Wanderer in Norwegian*

Solvtar Vandrer was born to Tog and Avryn, workers in the Lykkestein Mining Company. His father was a miner and his mother worked in the Company temple as a cleric of [[Tymora]]. He got his first name from his mother, as 'Silver Tear' is the name of the longsword that [[Tymora]] wields and his last name was earned as he was leaving the company to find his place in the world. His father was a man who went through times of great luck and times of terrible luck so at times their family was very affluent and at times they really struggled to make ends meet. These swings caused him to grow extremely close to his mother and become deeply involved with the company church. The company church followed [[Tymora]], the Goddess of luck, and the religious ceremonies that Solvtar helped out with revolved around games of chance loosely based on the Stone of [[Tymora]] and drinking from the Cup Of [[Tymora]]. His mother died from a fever when he was around 13 and his father died from testicular cancer around 2 years later. After the death of his father he tried to make a name for himself within the company by helping to defend the camp from the various creatures that populated [[Silberquel Ridge]], where the camp was located. After a few years of this, Solvtar found himself growing restless and wanting to leave the company and experience the world on his own. As was custom when an unnamed member of the company decided to leave, they gave him the name Vandrer (Wanderer) and sent him on his way with a set of dice and an unknown random mineral. 